So speaking of powerful, we have to practice. And now he's using all the different tools.
And just without practice, if he knows something, he's not going to benefit at all. He won't get
full benefits.
And therefore, we have to practice. That's the simple way to explain.
So here, now, again, in this same mind, you look these days, and now I've missed those lines,
but he said, "Every living being has Buddha-nature."
And that, of course, is explained before, many times, and said many times.
So everyone has Buddha-nature, all which is known as "Tathangata-garbha."
"Tathangata-garbha."
Buddha-nature, and that Buddha-nature in Dzogchen teaching, "Salt-book awareness" or the "Ruppa."
That is so. Everyone has a Ruppa. No one is out of this.
That Ruppa is the seeds, cause of the Buddhahoot, food.
That is a Buddhahoot. It will bring the Buddhahoot. That is a Buddhahoot-nature.
Oh, in life, it will bring as a Buddha-summon, the badra or the "vegethara" of the Buddha's food.
Like the Sattva status.
But even though it has that, even you know that, we have that color,
you know that, then if we don't practice, we won't get enlightened.
We won't discover that beautiful potential, beautiful nature.
Then we will be same as before.
Before, nothing is really going to change.
So therefore, he is encouraging, after you receive the teaching,
after you know the practices, put that into practice.
If you like to get full benefit, as explained before, power and all these things,
every minute, this all only comes by practicing.
Only comes by meditating practices, combination of the wisdom and compassion.
That will bring the result.
And everyone, if you practice this, or anyone practices this,
now he is talking, if anyone practices, there is no excuses.
Every practices, there is no excuses, everybody gets realization.
You don't have to make any excuses.
Everyone is the same, everyone is the equal, everyone has a right, everyone gets the result.
Doesn't matter what situation or circumstance that you have having externally,
but if you practice it, everyone gets.
And here you say, if you practice it, practice it, everyone will get, everyone will be liberated.
Everyone will be liberated, it is another terminology of the enlightenment.
Everyone will get enlightened.
We are liberated, for example, liberated.
We are liberated to that organized state, to the robust state,
the self-born awareness states.
From where we are liberated?
From the duality world, from the world of conception,
we are liberated to the state of the primordial Buddha,
the self-born awareness.
And the great, brilliant, robust status, we become the Buddha.
And because you are liberated, there is no difference of excuses,
you have to make anyone, there is no difference between whether you are smart or not smart.
Everyone has the same potential, everyone has the same qualities,
and this is so, because also he is explaining, this practice is so simple.
You don't have to be fancy, logical, philosophical, and I do it, and reach, and this and that.
It's so simple, it's so easy, it's just so simple.
Being casual, being relaxed, be only as we are.
That's what I really talk.
You say, there is no difference between smart or intelligence or not intelligence.
Tell me, say, oh, where do you start?
No difference at all.
That's it. There's many stories that is also, for example, I mean, teaching said,
one time, there's one similar here.
Nyanthala, even if you practice it, anyone practice, even that is so many times called,
very dumb, it can't do anything in the samsara world activity,
and just send better to send to upper animals, animals or cows.
Even that person will be getting enlightened.
Can't do anything in the samsara, any kind will be used for activity,
except for going to upper animals or cows.
Even that person will be getting enlightened.
There's a story, this is in the teaching said,
Nagarjuna is sitting, of course, Nagarjuna is a great master,
Nagarjuna is a great scholar, Nagarjuna is my great Mahasada,
and so he's a meditator practicing in hermitage, in the modern areas.
And there is then a very dumb person, or not really smart one, and cowherd.
Cowherd, I think, later I think his name is called loy sancha.
But however this cowherd comes there, a brave scholar around with Nagarjuna's meditator,
he comes there, there and there.
And soon after this cowherd has become so comfortable with Nagarjuna.
Nagarjuna, and he always comes to see Nagarjuna.
And then later he started bringing some murk to him, to Nagarjuna.
And he's so happy always to see Nagarjuna and coming there again and again.
And then afterward, when he was really devoted, he liked to stay there all the time.
Somehow he didn't, but he didn't know anything, he was so dull, dull-minded.
Dull-minded and not doing anything.
That's what they sent up to him, up to the cowherd.
And so now, Nagarjuna, if he didn't know anything,
Nagarjuna jokingly asked to meditate.
Meditate can't stop him, he don't know how to do it.
Again he didn't.
So Jogran and Nagarjuna said, meditate, cow.
Cow.
So the cow has been so many times, a long time with the cows.
So, Nagarjuna now said, meditate on the cow.
So he meditated on the cow, and the tiki said that.
Because his concentration is so strong, even if it's dull.
His concentration is so strong that even he really developed the cow horns on his head.
And now he's really blocking his movements.
Because the horn is blocking.
So now, Nagarjuna, oh really, he has a good concentration.
Now you meditate, meditate, meditate.
You don't have a cow.
You don't have horns.
And he also did the same thing, and then that horn is gone.
Now here's the easy.
And then Nagarjuna gave the example and stopped him how to meditate.
This time, he meditated, he became one of the great Mahasidha, or the greatest siddha.
And known as luya satcha.
Luya satcha in the Tibetan world have translated the enlightenment of naga.
So Nagarjuna's, I think, name he called luya jangchak.
Nagarjuna is ludak in Tibet, naga bodhi in Sanskrit, naga bodhi.
Nagar bodhi, he become really great, great Mahasidha.
And this is generally, in the teaching, always said, in the Vediana teaching,
Vediana practice, who will reach the enlightenment so fast?
The first one is so devoted, so joyful and smart, that devoted individual will reach enlightenment
very fast.
The second one is so dummy but very stable.
Dummy, stable, stable, that will reach enlightenment quickly because his mind is so stable.
He don't think so many, many things, he is concentrated strongly.
And therefore, every stage as it is, as the instruction, they are reaching, reaching enlightenment.
So there are two parts.
One is very smart and a devoted one, and the other is a dummy and stable.
Stable, stable, stable, stable, stable, stable, stable, stable, and that really will reach
enlightenment, as like naga bodhi in the teaching system.
So here, here, say the same thing.
Even the cow head will be liberated, enlightened.